src/trunk/libs/seiscomp3/io/recordstream/descriptions/global_recordstream.rst, before:

SeisComP applications access waveform data through the RecordStream interface. The following tables lists available implementations:

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Name", "Service Prefix", "Description"

   ":ref:`rs-slink`", "``slink``", "Connects to :ref:`SeedLink server <seedlink>`"
   ":ref:`rs-arclink`", "``arclink``", "Connects to :ref:`ArcLink server <arclink>`"
   ":ref:`rs-fdsnws`", "``fdsnws``", "Connects to :ref:`FDSN Web service <fdsnws>`"
   ":ref:`rs-file`", "``file``", "Reads records from file"
   ":ref:`rs-archive`", "``archive``", "Reads all record files found in directory (and subdirectories)"
   ":ref:`rs-sdsarchive`", "``sdsarchive``", "Reads records from SeisComP archive (SDS)"
   ":ref:`rs-odcarchive`", "``odcarchive``", "Reads records from Orpheus archive (ODC)"
   ":ref:`rs-memory`", "``memory``", "Reads records from memory"
   ":ref:`rs-combined`", "``combined``", "Combines archive and real-time stream"
   ":ref:`rs-balanced`", "``balanced``", "Distributes requests to multiple proxy streams"
   ":ref:`rs-dec`", "``dec``", "Decimates (resamples) a proxy stream"

The RecordStream used by an application is either specified on the the
commandline (`-I URI`) or configured through using the parameters
:confval:`recordstream.service` and :confval:`recordstream.source`. While the
`service` defines the RecordSteam implementation, the `source` supplies
parameters like a IP address or a file name to use.

.. _rs-slink:

SeedLink
--------

This RecordStream fetches data from a SeedLink server. The source is read as an
URL and supports URL encoded parameters. The default host ist set to
`localhost`, the default port to `18000`. Optional parameters are:

- `timeout` - connection timeout in seconds, default: 300
- `retries` - number of connection retry attempts, default: 0
- `no-batch` - disables BATCH mode to request data, does not take a value

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``slink://``
- ``slink://geofon.gfz-potsdam.de?timeout=60&retries=5``
- ``slink://localhost:18042``

.. _rs-arclink:

ArcLink
-------

This RecordStream fetches data from a ArcLink server. The source is read as an
URL and supports URL encoded parameters. The default host ist set to
`localhost`, the default port to `18001`. Optional parameters are:

- `user` - user name required on some servers
- `pwd` - password required on some servers
- `dump` - optional output file for all records being received

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``arclink://``
- ``arclink://geofon.gfz-potsdam.de?user=foo&pwd=secret``
- ``arclink://localhost:18042``
- ``arclink://localhost?dump=test.mseed``

.. _rs-fdsnws:

FDSNWS
------

This RecordStream fetches data from a FDSN Web service. The source is read as an
URL.

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``fdsnws://service.iris.edu:80/fdsnws/dataselect/1/query``

.. _rs-file:

File
----

This RecordStream reads data from a file. The source is read as an file path. If
the source is set to `'-'` the data is read from `stdin`. By default the record
type is set to `mseed`. If a file name extension is available the record type is
set as follows:

========= ===========
Extension Record Type
========= ===========
`*.xml`   `xml`
`*.bin`   `binary`
`*.mseed` `mseed`
`*.ah`    `ah`
========= ===========

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``file://-``
- ``file:///tmp/input.mseed``

.. _rs-archive:

Archive
-------

This RecordStream recursively traverses a directory and reads records from all
files found using the :ref:`rs-file` RecordStream. The source is interpreted as
a directory path.

Example
^^^^^^^

- ``archive:///path/to/record/archive``

.. _rs-sdsarchive:

SDSArchive
----------

This RecordStream reads data from an SeisComP (SDS) archive using the
:ref:`rs-file` RecordStream. The source is interpreted as a directory path.

Example
^^^^^^^

- ``sdsarchive:///home/sysop/seiscomp3/var/lib/archive``

.. _rs-odcarchive:

ODCArchive
----------

This RecordStream reads data from an ODC archive using the :ref:`rs-file`
RecordStream. The source is interpreted as a directory path.

Example
^^^^^^^

- ``odcarchive:///path/to/record/archive``

.. _rs-memory:

Memory
------

This RecordStream reads data from memory and is only useful for developing
applications. For instance a record sequence stored in an internal buffer could
be passed to an instance of this RecordStream for reading.

.. _rs-combined:

Combined
--------

This RecordStream combines one archive and one real-time RecordStream, e.g.
:ref:`rs-arclink` and :ref:`rs-slink`. First the archive stream is read up to
the size of the real-time buffer. Then the acquisition is switched to the
real-time stream. The syntax for the source is similar to an URL:

``combined://real-time-stream;archive-stream??parameters``

By default the real-time stream is set to :ref:`rs-slink` and the
archive-stream is set to :ref:`rs-arclink`. Any other streams may be configured.
The parameters of the combined stream are separated by 2 question marks (`??`)
in order to distinguish them from the parameters used in the proxy streams:

- `slinkMax|rtMax` - Buffer size in seconds of the real-time stream, default: 3600

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "URL", "Description"

   "``combined://localhost:18000;localhost:18001``", "Seedlink on localhost:18000 combined with Arclink on localhost 18001"
   "``combined://slink/localhost:18000;arclink/localhost:18001``", "Same as above"
   "``combined://;``", "Same as above"
   "``combined://:18042;?user=foo&pwd=secret??rtMax=1800``", "Seedlink on localhost:18042 combined with Arclink on localhost 18001, real-time (SeedLink) buffer size set to 30min"
   "``combined://;sdsarchive//home/sysop/seiscomp3/var/lib/archive?``", Seedlink combined with SDS archive

.. _rs-balanced:

Balanced
--------

This RecordStream distributes requests quasi-equally (but deterministically) to
multiple proxy streams. It can be used for load balancing and to improve failure
tolerance. The algorithm to choose a proxy stream (counting from 0) is based on
station code and can be expressed in Python as follows:

.. code-block:: python

   stationCode = "WLF"
   nproxies = 2

   x = 0
   for c in stationCode:
       x += ord(c)

   print("choosing proxy stream", x % nproxies)

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "URL", "Description"

   "``balanced://slink/server1:18000;slink/server2:18000``", "Distribute requests to 2 :ref:`rs-slink` RecordStreams"
   "``balanced://combined/(server1:18000;server1:18001);combined/(server2:18000;server2:18001)``", "Distribute requests to 2 :ref:`rs-combined` RecordStreams"

.. _rs-dec:

Decimation
----------

This RecordStream decimates (resamples) a proxy stream, e.g. :ref:`rs-slink`.
The syntax for the source is similar to an URL:

``dec://proxy-stream?parameters/address``

Optional parameters are:

- `rate` - target sampling rate in Hz, default: 1
- `fp` - default: 0.7
- `fs` - default: 0.9
- `cs` - coefficient scale, default: 10

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``dec://slink/localhost:18000``
- ``dec://file?rate=2/-``
- ``dec://combined/;``

Commit message:

[doc] Add resample record stream doc

src/trunk/libs/seiscomp3/io/recordstream/descriptions/global_recordstream.rst, after:

SeisComP applications access waveform data through the RecordStream interface. The following tables lists available implementations:

.. csv-table::
   :header: "Name", "Service Prefix", "Description"

   ":ref:`rs-slink`", "``slink``", "Connects to :ref:`SeedLink server <seedlink>`"
   ":ref:`rs-arclink`", "``arclink``", "Connects to :ref:`ArcLink server <arclink>`"
   ":ref:`rs-fdsnws`", "``fdsnws``", "Connects to :ref:`FDSN Web service <fdsnws>`"
   ":ref:`rs-file`", "``file``", "Reads records from file"
   ":ref:`rs-sdsarchive`", "``sdsarchive``", "Reads records from SeisComP archive (SDS)"
   ":ref:`rs-odcarchive`", "``odcarchive``", "Reads records from Orpheus archive (ODC)"
   ":ref:`rs-memory`", "``memory``", "Reads records from memory"
   ":ref:`rs-combined`", "``combined``", "Combines archive and real-time stream"
   ":ref:`rs-balanced`", "``balanced``", "Distributes requests to multiple proxy streams"
   ":ref:`rs-dec`", "``dec``", "Decimates (resamples) a proxy stream"
   ":ref:`rs-resample`", "``resample``", "Resamples (up or down) a proxy stream to a given sampling rate"

The RecordStream used by an application is either specified on the the
commandline (`-I URI`) or configured through using the parameters
:confval:`recordstream.service` and :confval:`recordstream.source`. While the
`service` defines the RecordSteam implementation, the `source` supplies
parameters like a IP address or a file name to use.

.. _rs-slink:

SeedLink
--------

This RecordStream fetches data from a SeedLink server. The source is read as an
URL and supports URL encoded parameters. The default host ist set to
`localhost`, the default port to `18000`. Optional parameters are:

- `timeout` - connection timeout in seconds, default: 300
- `retries` - number of connection retry attempts, default: 0
- `no-batch` - disables BATCH mode to request data, does not take a value

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``slink://``
- ``slink://geofon.gfz-potsdam.de?timeout=60&retries=5``
- ``slink://localhost:18042``

.. _rs-arclink:

ArcLink
-------

This RecordStream fetches data from a ArcLink server. The source is read as an
URL and supports URL encoded parameters. The default host ist set to
`localhost`, the default port to `18001`. Optional parameters are:

- `user` - user name required on some servers
- `pwd` - password required on some servers
- `dump` - optional output file for all records being received

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``arclink://``
- ``arclink://geofon.gfz-potsdam.de?user=foo&pwd=secret``
- ``arclink://localhost:18042``
- ``arclink://localhost?dump=test.mseed``

.. _rs-fdsnws:

FDSNWS
------

This RecordStream fetches data from a FDSN Web service. The source is read as an
URL.

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``fdsnws://service.iris.edu:80/fdsnws/dataselect/1/query``

.. _rs-file:

File
----

This RecordStream reads data from a file. The source is read as an file path. If
the source is set to `'-'` the data is read from `stdin`. By default the record
type is set to `mseed`. If a file name extension is available the record type is
set as follows:

========= ===========
Extension Record Type
========= ===========
`*.xml`   `xml`
`*.bin`   `binary`
`*.mseed` `mseed`
`*.ah`    `ah`
========= ===========

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``file://-``
- ``file:///tmp/input.mseed``

.. _rs-sdsarchive:

SDSArchive
----------

This RecordStream reads data from an SeisComP (SDS) archive using the
:ref:`rs-file` RecordStream. The source is interpreted as a directory path.

Example
^^^^^^^

- ``sdsarchive:///home/sysop/seiscomp3/var/lib/archive``

.. _rs-odcarchive:

ODCArchive
----------

This RecordStream reads data from an ODC archive using the :ref:`rs-file`
RecordStream. The source is interpreted as a directory path.

Example
^^^^^^^

- ``odcarchive:///path/to/record/archive``

.. _rs-memory:

Memory
------

This RecordStream reads data from memory and is only useful for developing
applications. For instance a record sequence stored in an internal buffer could
be passed to an instance of this RecordStream for reading.

.. _rs-combined:

Combined
--------

This RecordStream combines one archive and one real-time RecordStream, e.g.
:ref:`rs-arclink` and :ref:`rs-slink`. First the archive stream is read up to
the size of the real-time buffer. Then the acquisition is switched to the
real-time stream. The syntax for the source is similar to an URL:

``combined://real-time-stream;archive-stream??parameters``

By default the real-time stream is set to :ref:`rs-slink` and the
archive-stream is set to :ref:`rs-arclink`. Any other streams may be configured.
The parameters of the combined stream are separated by 2 question marks (`??`)
in order to distinguish them from the parameters used in the proxy streams:

- `slinkMax|rtMax` - Buffer size in seconds of the real-time stream, default: 3600

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "URL", "Description"

   "``combined://localhost:18000;localhost:18001``", "Seedlink on localhost:18000 combined with Arclink on localhost 18001"
   "``combined://slink/localhost:18000;arclink/localhost:18001``", "Same as above"
   "``combined://;``", "Same as above"
   "``combined://:18042;?user=foo&pwd=secret??rtMax=1800``", "Seedlink on localhost:18042 combined with Arclink on localhost 18001, real-time (SeedLink) buffer size set to 30min"
   "``combined://;sdsarchive//home/sysop/seiscomp3/var/lib/archive?``", Seedlink combined with SDS archive

.. _rs-balanced:

Balanced
--------

This RecordStream distributes requests quasi-equally (but deterministically) to
multiple proxy streams. It can be used for load balancing and to improve failure
tolerance. The algorithm to choose a proxy stream (counting from 0) is based on
station code and can be expressed in Python as follows:

.. code-block:: python

   stationCode = "WLF"
   nproxies = 2

   x = 0
   for c in stationCode:
       x += ord(c)

   print("choosing proxy stream", x % nproxies)

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "URL", "Description"

   "``balanced://slink/server1:18000;slink/server2:18000``", "Distribute requests to 2 :ref:`rs-slink` RecordStreams"
   "``balanced://combined/(server1:18000;server1:18001);combined/(server2:18000;server2:18001)``", "Distribute requests to 2 :ref:`rs-combined` RecordStreams"

.. _rs-dec:

Decimation
----------

This RecordStream decimates (resamples) a proxy stream, e.g. :ref:`rs-slink`.
The syntax for the source is similar to an URL:

``dec://proxy-stream?parameters/address``

Optional parameters are:

- `rate` - target sampling rate in Hz, default: 1
- `fp` - default: 0.7
- `fs` - default: 0.9
- `cs` - coefficient scale, default: 10

Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``dec://slink/localhost:18000``
- ``dec://file?rate=2/-``
- ``dec://combined/;``

.. _rs-resample:

Resample
--------

This RecordStream resamples (up or down) a proxy stream, e.g. :ref:`rs-slink`,
to a given sampling rate. The syntax for the source is similar to an URL:

``resample://proxy-stream?parameters/address``

Optional parameters are:

- `rate` - target sampling rate in Hz, default: 1
- `fp` - default: 0.7
- `fs` - default: 0.9
- `cs` - coefficient scale, default: 10
- `lw` - lanczos kernel width, default: 3
- `debug` - enables debug output, default: false


Examples
^^^^^^^^

- ``resample://slink/localhost:18000``
- ``resample://file?rate=2/-``
- ``resample://combined/;``
