src/trunk/apps/python/descriptions/scbulletin.rst, before:

scbulletin transforms the parameters of an origin either to autoloc1 or autoloc3
format. Two modes are possible. Either one can fetch all necessary information
from database directly or one can provide a representation of the origin as
file, to transform it to a standard format. The first mode is the dump-mode the
second is the input-mode. For dumping either choose eventID or the originID. If
the eventID is choosen the preferred origin will be used. Three output formats
are available autoloc1, autoloc3 or extended autoloc3.

If called with an event or origin ID a database connection is necessary to
fetch the corresponding object otherwise scbulletin will read the input source
(defaults to stdin) and grab the first found event that is dumped.

Examples
========

#. Create bulletin from event in database

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin -d mysql://sysop:sysop@localhost/seiscomp3 -E gfz2012abcd

#. Convert XML file to bulletin

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin < gfz2012abcd.xml

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin -i gfz2012abcd.xml

Commit message:

[scbulletin] Add option enhanced for high-precision

src/trunk/apps/python/descriptions/scbulletin.rst, after:

scbulletin transforms the parameters of an event or an origin either to autoloc1
or to autoloc3 format.

Input Modes
-----------

Two modes of parameter input are possible:

1. Either one can fetch all necessary information from database directly
#. or one can provide a representation of the origin as XML file, to transform it
   to a standard format.

The first mode is the dump-mode the second is the input-mode. For dumping either
choose eventID or the originID. If the eventID is choosen the preferred origin
will be used.

Output Modes
------------

Different output formats are available:

1. **autoloc1** working with **-1**
#. **autoloc3** working with **-3**
#. **extended autoloc3** working with **-3 -x**
#. **enhanced** working with **-1 -e** or  **-3 -e** for high-precision output.

If called with an event or origin ID a database connection is necessary to
fetch the corresponding object. Otherwise scbulletin will read the input source
(defaults to stdin), grab the first found event or origin and dump it.

Examples
========

#. Create bulletin from event in database

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin -d mysql://sysop:sysop@localhost/seiscomp3 -E gfz2012abcd

#. Convert XML file to bulletin

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin < gfz2012abcd.xml

   .. code-block:: sh

      scbulletin -i gfz2012abcd.xml
